What 1997 N64 video game, features James Bond and is named after the 1995 film?

Answer: GoldenEye

What arcade game was called Puckman in Japan?

Answer: Pac-Man

In July 2023, video game company EA announced that players will be able to explore Wakanda in an upcoming open-world video game based on the adventures of what Marvel superhero?

Answer: Black Panther

Which spooky 2001 GameCube game starring Mario’s brother got a reboot for Nintendo Switch in 2019?

Answer: Luigi's Mansion

In May 2022, the government of what European nation banned its employees from using American gaming terms such as "e-sports," instead using their domestic language counterparts like "jeu video de competition?"

Answer: France

Regarded as one of the greatest video games of all time, what 1981 arcade game features the titular amphibian trying to cross a road without getting squashed by cars, and a river without getting eaten by predators?

Answer: Frogger

What is thought to be the first video game, created in 1958 and becoming popular in the 1970s?

Answer: Pong

What Will Wright created video game series released in 2000 (with sequels in 2004, 2009, and 2014) saw players watching and directing characters to mundane things like eating, sleeping, and cleaning their houses?

Answer: The Sims

Making his debut in 1990's "Super Mario World," what is the name of the enemy-eating, egg-throwing green dinosaur who serves as a sidekick to Mario and Luigi in the Mario franchise?

Answer: Yoshi

Which video game console released in 2006 pioneered the use of motion controls in its gameplay?

Answer: Nintendo Wii

2021 will see the release of what sixth game in the Halo franchise, continuing the adventures of Master Chief? Its name sounds as if the game’s story will continue in perpetuity.

Answer: Halo Infinite

In 2014, Google partnered with Game Freak and Nintendo as part of an April Fool's Day prank to create a new version of Google Maps populated by small creatures. This prank inspired what massively popular 2016 video game?

Answer: Pokemon Go

Mendicant Bias and Offensive Bias are fictional AIs in what "holy" video game franchise that shares its name with a Beyonce´ song?

Answer: Halo

Introduced on Wii consoles, Nintendo gamers can make their own in-game character by creating an avatar known by what three-letter name that sounds similar to a pronoun?

Answer: Mii

What video game came with the Nintendo Entertainment System when it was released in the late 1980s, and was meant to be played with the NES Zapper gun? It shared a cartridge with "Super Mario Bros."

Answer: Duck Hunt

The word Tetris is a combination of the Greek word Tetra (meaning four) and what 6-letter sport that was a favorite of game creator Alexy Pajitnov?

Answer: Tennis

What Konami game from September 1998 was initially released to the European arcade audience under the name "Dancing Stage?"

Answer: Dance Dance Revolution

What North Carolina-based video game company created the 2018 breakout hit "Fortnite"?

Answer: Epic Games

In Mario Kart, the power-up that seeks out the player in first position and explodes on impact is a shell that is what color?

Answer: Blue

The company that created Fortnite, EPIC, also created a game engine that is licenses to other game creators named what?

Answer: Unreal

Released in 2004 by Blizzard Entertainment and set in the fictional universe of Azeroth, what is the name of the computer game that became the world's most popular "MMORPG" (massively multiplayer online role-playing game) within a few years and continues to be referenced in popular culture with its three-letter abbreviation?

Answer: World of Warcraft

Smoke on the Water is a fictional medical-marijuana shop that can be purchased by Franklin with money gained from completing missions in what heist-y video game franchise?

Answer: Grand Theft Auto

Which PlayStation platformer released in 1996 has you play as the titular character—a marsupial prone to mayhem who was captured (and mutated) by Dr. Neo Cortex?

Answer: Crash Bandicoot

The Warthog is the nickname of the M12 Force Application Light Reconnaissance Vehicle, a fictional armored fighting vehicle that appears in what video game series?

Answer: Halo

Pocket, Light, Color, and Advance were all styles or variants of what video game hardware system?

Answer: Game Boy

What object does Mario typically leap onto after completing a level in the earliest iterations in his franchise?

Answer: Flagpole

What third-person shooter video game developed by Nintendo was first released in 2015 and features characters known as inklings that can transform between human and squid-like forms?

Answer: Splatoon

In Super Mario Kart, the first game in Nintendo's racing franchise, which of the playable characters has the shortest names?

Answer: Toad

Neill Blomkamp is a South African-born film director, producer, and screenwriter particularly known for his work in the science fiction genre. His feature film debut came in 2009 with the well-received District 9, but only after a project to adapt a popular video game franchise fell through (Blomkamp was attached as the director). What is the name of this franchise, which debuted a character that later lent its name to Microsoft’s version of Apple's Siri?

Answer: Halo

When the kids online say "LoL," they're either laughing or referencing what online battle arena game that's been sponsored by Mastercard since 2018?

Answer: League of Legends

What 2009 game, developed by Mojang, is an open sandbox in which players often build structures and battle creepers, zombies, and other "mobs"?

Answer: Minecraft

Harry must collect treasures including gold, diamonds, and money without landing in quicksand or falling into an opening in the ground in what classic 1982 Atari game with an exclamation point in the title?

Answer: Pitfall!

What word—which shares its name with a popular soda brand—describes a 2D bitmap image, such as a video game character, that's integrated into a larger scene?

Answer: Sprite

In what franchise-launching 1985 educational video game was a user required to have a warrant for each arrest while "traveling" to locales as widespread as Oslo, Kathmandu, Cairo, and Lima?

Answer: Where in the World Is Carmen San Diego?

An egg-shaped wind instrument dating back to ancient times appears in the title of what 1998 installment in the "Legend of Zelda" franchise, which debuted on the Nintendo 64 game system?

Answer: Ocarina of Time

In 2015, the first 6 games were induced into the World Video Game Hall of Fame. Can you name at least one?

Answer: Pong & Tetris & Pac-Man & Super Mario Bros & DOOM & World of Warcraft

What 2018 video games is set in 1899 and follows the story of outlaws Arthur Morgan and John Marston? Both characters are members of the Van der Linde gang.

Answer: Red Dead Redemption 2

What card game related to the "Warcraft" universe did Blizzard release in 2014?

Answer: Hearthstone

A sleek black convertible known as the Regalia is the car Noctis Lucis Caelum and his friends use to travel across Eos in the fifteenth installment of what alliterative video game franchise?

Answer: Final Fantasy

Although early versions of the game featured a character named "Ivan the Space Biker," the game's maker (Valve) eventually settled on "Gordon Freeman" as the hero. What was the game?

Answer: Half-Life

What video game character is described with the following set of clues? Created by Charles Zembillas. First introduced in the 1998. A young, energetic, violet creature with orange medium-sized wings, large, curved horns (most of the time), a spiral-shaped spike on the tip of his tail, and spikes resembling a mohawk.

Answer: Spyro the Dragon

Used while playing "Contra," the original Konami code gave you 30 extra of what video game things?

Answer: Extra Lives

What name is shared by a sci-fi video game franchise, a Beyonce song, and the tiara worn by Kate Middleton on her wedding day?

Answer: Halo

In the timeless Oregon Trail video games, you were often given three options to get across rivers: caulk and float, take a ferry, and what bronco and mustang-friendly, four-letter third choice?

Answer: Ford

Chuck E. Cheese was originally founded by Nolan Bushnell who also co-founded what video game company known for its 2600?

Answer: Atari

What is the name of the game engine owned by Epic Games, the company behind Fortnite?

Answer: Unreal Engine

What Star Wars console video game released at the end of 2020 focuses on space combat inspired by the movie franchise? The title comes from the operational air force units comprised of two or more aircraft and their personnel.

Answer: Star Wars: Squadrons

What 2021 installment in the Call of Duty video game franchise shares its name with one of America's largest investment management firms?

Answer: Vanguard

What fantasy kingdom is the main setting for the "Legend of Zelda" video game series?

Answer: Hyrule

The third entry in an extremely popular post-apocalyptic video game franchise was set in an area known as "Capital Wasteland" which was the ruins of Washington, DC and the surrounding countryside. What is the name of this franchise which shares its title with the term for residual radioactive material in the atmosphere?

Answer: Fallout

In the game Halo, what is the name of Master Chief's AI sidekick? Microsoft later re-used this name for their own product.

Answer: Cortana

What 1996 video game kicked off a long-running film and game franchise and elevated the "horror" genre of video games into the mainstream?

Answer: Resident Evil

Dressed in purple and black with an upside-down "L" on his cap, what skinny and mustachioed character made his debut in the 2000 Nintendo 64 game, "Mario Tennis?"

Answer: Waluigi

Imane Anys, whose millions of followers love to watch her play League of Legends and Fortnite, is better known by what name that's a portmanteau of her name and a Japanese game franchise?

Answer: Pokimane

Sun, Moon, Diamond, Pearl, and SoulSilver have all been names of games in what iconic video game franchise?

Answer: Pokemon

What Nintendo console was codenamed NX while under development and featured controllers called "Joy-Cons" upon release?

Answer: Nintendo Switch

What 1985 video game begins with a planned departure from Independence, Missouri?

Answer: The Oregon Trail

What first-person shooter video game developed by Valve and published for Microsoft Windows in 1998 launched a globally successful franchise? The game shares its name with a scientific term frequently used in nuclear physics to describe the stability of atoms.

Answer: Half-Life

Crash is a video game character who is a genetically mutated type of what marsupial?

Answer: Bandicoot

The first Star Wars video game, made for the Atari 2600, was based on which film in the original trilogy?

Answer: The Empire Strikes Back

What since-renamed brand mascot was initially introduced as Pitcher Man in 1954 and eventually reached such a pop culture icon status that he was the primary subject of multiple video games?

Answer: Kool Aid Man

What is the name of the best-selling video game franchise to come out of Disney's home-grown intellectual property (so we're ignoring Disney's purchase of Lucas Films)?

Answer: Kingdom Hearts

In the original 1980 edition of Pac-Man, the four ghosts were named Blinky, Inky, Pinky, and what "C" name that doesn't rhyme with the rest?

Answer: Clyde

What simulation video game franchise was originally developed by Will Wright and launched in 1989 for the Macintosh computer?

Answer: SimCity

What video game franchise features Dr. Wily as the primary villain?

Answer: Mega Man

Balloon Burst, Bombs Away, Treasure Divers, and Handcar Havoc were all part of what 1998 video game, the first in its franchise?

Answer: Mario Party

"Ultimate" and "Melee" are two of the iterations in the Super Smash Bros. franchise. What is the one additional word that follows the name of a title in the series?

Answer: Brawl

The first game in the Final Fantasy video game franchise was released for what console?

Answer: Nintendo Entertainment System (NES)

Tingle is a "short, paunchy 35-year-old" obsessed with "forest fairies" and dresses up in a green costume. In what video game franchise did Tingle debut before having his own eponymous series?

Answer: The Legend of Zelda

What is the name of the twin brother of Solid Snake, the protagonist of the Metal Gear franchise?

Answer: Liquid Snake

In January 2021, a short squeeze orchestrated by Reddit users caused a skyrocketing of the price of what retail chain that sells video games and consumer electronics?

Answer: GameStop

The 1995 point-and-click adventure game "I Have No Mouth, and I Must Scream" is based on the short story of the same name by what sci-fi author who also wrote "A Boy and His Dog?"

Answer: Harlan Ellison

Skyrim is the fifth installment of what epic open-world videogame series by Bethesda Softworks?

Answer: The Elder Scrolls

Which Legend of Zelda game that picks up after Ocarina of Time was released for N64 in 2000 and remade for Nintendo 3DS in 2015?

Answer: Majora's Mask